everyone welcome back to another
hardware news recap for the week for
this one we have pretty big to show this
time
first of all cyberpunk 2077 delayed more
on that a minute the rumors about and
these big navvy GPUs have been largely
wrong or misleading in the very least
we'll talk about that as well
the EU doesn't like proprietary phone
chargers and neither do reasonable
people and also Microsoft hoping to go
into the negatives on its carbon
emissions over the next couple decades
and then finally some Nvidia RT X news
before that this video is brought to you
by the drop and - he4 xx planar magnetic
headphones the he4 xx headphones focus
on high quality audio listening
experiences with comfortable foam
cushions for the ear cups comfort is
also ensured with a leather covered
spring steel headband allowing
flexibility and durability against bends
these headphones are capable of
delivering big sound for audio files
while being positioned competitively in
price learn more at the link in the
description below before we get into the
hardware news I wanted to cover a
charity drive we're doing for wildlife
rescue South Coast in Australia the
group is dedicated to rescuing and
helping animals recover from the bush
fires in Australia and I've been
researching these for a couple of weeks
now but this is the one we've decided on
I'll talk about more on why we chose
them in a minute so some of the things
we're doing for this we're gonna be
auctioning off this mod mat which has a
lot of signatures from some notables in
the industry it's one of our first mod
mats we made I'll talk about more of who
signed this in a moment but one of them
is their power from before the bromance
started so it's before he dotted
everything with hearts when he
autographs things that I also
autographed we've got that going on
we're also going to be giving $1500 just
directly to the charity sometimes when
we do these things the group were
working with has a way to do a donation
match this one doesn't there's no way I
can track who from our audience has
given money to them versus who hasn't so
I'd love to do a match but I'm just
gonna give 1500 bucks and then hopefully
you all can kind of meet me halfway
there and give us some money so we'll
link them below we'll also link the eBay
listing for this map below and I'm going
to talk about this more in a minute and
then separately from all of that we're
also going to be giving 10% of our gross
revenue from the GN store to wildlife
rescue south coast in Australia starting
January 19th and in February 19th my
friend who handles the distribution the
shipping also offered to donate for
every item he ships for us for the month
so if you wanted to buy something from
us anyway now's a great time because
part of your purchase will go towards
funding the recovery group if you'd
rather just give all the money straight
to charity and bypass us we are a
hundred percent okay with that we have a
link below where you can do that this is
more about if you wanted to buy stuff
from us anyway now is the time to do it
so as for the store we just restock the
ceramic mugs for this we have a lot of
large and medium odd mats back in stock
and shipping now we've added our brand
new disappointing gpus shirt to store
documents nexus net it's got the same
front as the disappointment PC 20-19
shirt but a different back since it's
not 2019 anymore if you missed the
disappointment PC shirt and you wanted
that front design anyway this is a great
way to grab that similar design and give
a proportion of the purchase to charity
and if you end up going to buy a mod mat
and they're on backorder by the time you
try to buy it then as long as it's
ordered within the period we're still
going to give 10% of the gross revenue
from that to the charity so even if it
doesn't ship right away although
everything's in stock right now if it's
on backorder will still go through that
donation so anywhere on the charity I
spent the last two or three weeks
researching different organizations it's
actually part of the reason we slowed
down for videos this week I got really
obsessed with researching all of them
and really wanted to help out any way I
could with wildlife recovery
specifically so this was and the group
we ended up decided on and the wildlife
rescue South Coast has been operating
since the 1980s so they're not they
haven't just popped up from the bush
fires they know what they're doing they
have the experience necessary to help
the animals properly and I also like
them because they work with another
group that I likes which is called wild
to free which just had us hold hundreds
of acres of sanctuary burned down in
Australia and that's a sanctuary that's
rebuilding right now both groups are
working together to recover and also to
establish wildlife feeding areas and
watering areas so that's one of the
biggest problems right now is even for
the animals that survive without any
injuries and there is affected by the
bush fires they're left with no more
or vegetation to eat so that's a huge
problem and these groups help with
leaving out food or water - to help
those and then they also bring the ones
back that have been injured to try and
recover their heal their wounds and get
them back out there so the fact that
these groups work on rehabilitating
animals and on helping ones left in the
wild is what made me want to support
them I also noticed that they had less
support than some of the much larger
organizations there's less operating
overhead with these smaller charities
and nearly all the money spent on going
to a cause they're primarily volunteer
driven not employee driven and that's
why I wanted to support them one of the
biggest challenges right now with
something like this where there's
hundreds of millions of dollars getting
donated is that there's almost too much
money coming in to too few places and so
it's not possible to spend at all
now which isn't to say anything bad
about the companies getting or the
organization's getting the money it's
just that there's so much coming in it's
physically impossible so I'm trying to
spread it out a little more to some of
the smaller groups that could definitely
use it in recovering their sanctuaries
so anyway for the mod mat we're donating
100% of the proceeds from this auction
to the charity and as for the signatures
on it let's see so this has a bit of a
story to it this was from the first
production run of mod mats and there's a
few ways you can tell that so the first
production run 50% of them had a slight
gray color to the top of it and 50% of
them were black this is one of the 50%
of the black ones and that's accompanied
by another change which is the the snap
the anti-static snap on the original
production runs the first couple runs or
so did not have a screw in it and the
new ones do so this actually just
snapped straight into the mat whereas
the newer ones have a screen removed if
you wanted to get the snap out of there
so that's how you can tell it's from the
original run and its first gen mod Matt
and I had it autographed by some over
friends when I went through Computex I
think the first time I ever went so that
would be right around when these came
out and we didn't know as many people in
the industry then so it's got fewer
signatures and I'm gonna have my core
team sign this as well so it'll actually
be the only thing that we've all signed
at GN so I'll have Patrick Andrew and
Keegan signed this mat as well and if
you want whoever wins the
charity auction will be on eBay whoever
wins that auction will if you want to
sue will personalize it and put a note
on there and if not that's fine too
all right so first generation mod Matt
it's got some cool signatures on it it
was used briefly actually on the set
table at my house before we move to the
office so it's got some some history to
it there as well although it's not as
heavily used as some of the others and
we'll link it in the description below
if you want to buy one but you can't
afford the auction then obviously you
can go to store documents access net if
you're planning on buying one anyway and
for the next month's we're gonna be
donating 10% of those proceeds to the
charity as well or you can just give a
straight to them that's 100% fine with
me if you want to give all the money to
the charity absolutely do it so anyway
that's it for this one I'm also going to
do a try and do a stream in the next
week or so and we'll set that up with
the charity as well do like a super
chats for them or something like that so
keep an eye out for that I'm also trying
to get some stuff in from kingpin we'll
see what he can give that we can auction
off as well later on so keep an eye out
for all that let's get into the news for
this week first news item for the show
cyberpunk 2077 delayed this is more game
news but it relates to hardware because
so much of the industry is building
towards the launch of this game
cyberpunk 2077 as you've all heard by
now has been delayed past its original
April launch date and instead to a
September 17th 2020 launch date the game
has been in development for what feels
like forever at this point and CD PR
released a statement that said the
following quote we are currently at a
stage where the game is complete and
playable but there's still work to be
done Knight city is massive full of
stories content and places to visit but
due to the sheer scale and complexity of
it all we need more time to finish play
testing fixing and polishing we want
cyberpunk 2077 to be our crowning
achievement for this generation and
postponing launch will give us the
precious months we need to make the game
perfect similar to when AMD delayed its
3950 X there were of course a lot of
comments online about how irate they are
about a delay of a video game but just
as a reminder this is what we all
complain about all the time when media
and consumers complain about games or
hardware products being incomplete
bad and not good at launch it's because
the companies didn't delay when they
should have so hopefully this is a sign
of something good hopefully a CDP I
realize that it just needs the delay
launch so it didn't release to a
cacophony of issues from the community
all being voiced at once either way
though now that the company has set the
games complete and it only needs
polishing and it's also spending about
almost a year doing that up fixing and
polishing acts that they're doing
there's gonna be a lot more pressure to
make sure that it's not buggy and a lot
more scrutiny from the community once it
does launch knowing that they've had
most of the year to clean it up so
without knowing further details
hopefully this is the right decision
because it was the right decision when
AMD did it at the 3950 X and companies
really do need to just slow down for a
second and make sure their stuff isn't
complete garbage when it launches so
this is maybe a move in the right
direction
Xbox Series X SSDs this one's a bit of a
rumor but not too much it could be based
out of flies on controller so a recent
report from digit x claims that flies on
has reportedly quote broken into the
supply chain of Microsoft's Xbox which
would be for its storage solution this
goes on to suggest that Microsoft's next
console will have SSD is based on Phi's
ons controllers we already know that
they're supposed to have SSDs Sony made
this whole big deal about SSDs and how
it's this new revolutionary way of
gaming that no one's ever experienced
before except for on PCs for about a
decade now anyway we could further
speculate that the controllers would
support PCIe John for giving that it's a
thighs on accompaniment thighs on was
the first to market with a client
oriented PCIe gen for SSD controller
taking the form of the PS 5 zero one six
- East sixteen we also know files on is
preparing for a higher-end PS 5 zero one
eight - e 18 that is supposedly capable
of seven gigabyte per second throughput
with a large be there then there's the
more mainstream PS 5:01 9 e 19 t that's
supposed to offer on four gigabytes per
second throughput both controllers are
due sometime in 2020 and the nvme SSD
that comes with the Xbox Series X or
whatever it's called could end up
supporting a controller modeled
after one of them if we were guessing or
it could be based on some variants of
the Phi's on e 16 controller which is
already proven popular given that far
with PCIe gen 4 for SSDs and already has
had at least one controller on the
market for some time now it does put the
company in an advantageous position to
supply next-gen consoles we've heard a
lot of numbers about AMD's B 550 chipset
and when it's supposed to happen
one of those who reported during CES and
some of our msi booth coverage but it's
it's still a moving target part of that
is because the fabricator of the silicon
for the chipset is it changes based on
the generation of it so another report
by digit times the has peg 2 and these
next 600 series chipsets as landing by
the end of 2020 one of the numbers we
heard from P 550 Weaver first quarter
but more recently you've also hit third
quarter so who knows when it's gonna
come out at this point but by the time I
am the launches be 550 it might be
eating its own chipset with the 600 T's
either way according to digit time
sources as media has already secured
contracts to build a.m. these 600 series
of chipsets and that should a company
rise in 4,000 drives in 4000 is rumored
for release at some point eventually as
for timelines the current rumor is
second half of the year likely after
Computex so the to rumors align to an
extent
it's just they they're both rumors so as
media is also working on a USB 4 chip it
plans to bring this to market this year
it'll be interesting to see what effect
if any that has on Andy's next a m4
chipset and these X 570 heralded the
arrival of PCIe gen 4 for consumers and
Andy could very well offer the first
motherboard supporting the new USB
standard in an online landscape that's
becoming increasingly more concerned
with privacy with things like home
spying devices ie Alexa and Google our
overlords and also Microsoft in this
story late in the news show later it
should be apparent that companies like
Verizon would want a way to monetize the
privacy paranoia well he'll also cashing
in on it on the other side of that
Verizon's newest venture seemingly
positions the company the same one by
the way that violates net neutrality and
has been
red-handed selling the data of its
wireless customers as your next privacy
provider Verizon has also staunchly
opposed legislation that aims at
strengthening consumer privacy online in
the past and affording more privacy to
customers such as obtaining opt-in
consent from customers before ravaging
their data for monetary purposes but hey
giant telecom conglomerates can always
change not necessarily for the better
but they can change afterall privacy is
is nothing if not profitable look at
Nord VPN the new search engine by
Verizon called one search is being
positioned as an obvious alternative to
Google Verizon claims that your search
queries will be encrypted and search
terms will not be stored Verizon also
says that it will not use cookies with
onesearch nor will it track or profile
you Verizon's one search results are
powered by Bing and will serve quote
contextual ads that is as based on the
search keywords rather than targeting
ads based on a user profile or anything
else that's identifiable at least that's
what Verizon says well take this
opportunity to remind you that
DuckDuckGo exists but also one search
really got to work on the naming for
that so it's it's interesting it's
interesting especially because the
recent New York Times story that is from
late December when it's a detail about
how individual points of data can all be
linked together so when you're looking
at tracked cell phone data for example
even though it's anonymized any
individual points in the data set can be
associated with its other points so you
can see where one individual has been
throughout the entirety of their phones
life even though it doesn't have a name
for that person as New York Times
pointed out you can find the famous or
well-known individuals like say
politicians or extremely wealthy
celebrities who have enough money to sit
in a mansion where obviously no one else
will be you can find them in their place
of residence or work and then figure out
where their dot also goes for example to
sleazy places that you might not want
known anyway
Verizon good timing to get in on this
especially since it's probably included
in that
New York Times story also that's a
really interesting story you should all
read about if you want to know about how
a privacy is futile
next one the EU doesn't like proprietary
phone chargers this is a one of the good
stories if you've noticed that a lot of
like shark devices these days have
stopped shipping with charters or at
least the part that plugs into the
outlet they might still include the
cable that's overall a good thing most
devices trust that by now you probably
have at least one charger if not a
drawer full of charges with a swappable
cable that you can plug into any device
you want and so it reduces some of the
cost of the product helping consumers
there and also some of the wastes
helping everybody European Parliament
recently published that the device
chargers alone that accompany devices
purchased account for 51 thousand metric
tons of e-waste annually and the
European Union believes that charging
devices or chargers for devices should
be standardized going forward so it it
helped reduce wasted it's really a shame
if there's not some sort of universal
standard for charging like like a almost
like a universal bus of some kind
UBS Universal bus of some kind some kind
of UBS charger that we could use to
charge all of our devices with just just
one end for the cable that can be
plugged into almost anything well anyway
it's a shame that that doesn't exist but
Apple is currently the primary company
that's threatened by that you use desire
to change this and enforce a single
charging standard on mobile devices
Apple surely will think of this as an
opportunity to create a new standard
because when there's a lot of standards
you need a new one to unify all the
standards anyway it likes to think
itself a sophisticate of course and so
we suspect that Apple will probably find
a way to comply with the potentially new
legislation by skirting the rules our
guess would be that Apple might switch
to something like fully inductive
charging because then haha we don't need
a plug-in charger so we can bypass the
rules Apple hates things that are
efficient or not wasteful or
not a waste of money for the consumer
and so they'll probably ship inductive
charging station
blast the batteries as much as possible
with as much current as possible to wear
them out as quickly as possible and
alternatively move everything to USB
type-c that would be great too
next one Microsoft removing that past
carbon emissions in the same tune as the
previous story
Microsoft posted a massive blog update
that's actually a really interesting
read but it plans to become carbon
negative in just 10 years
not stopping at being carbon neutral the
company hopes that it can remove its
historic carbon emissions as well dating
back to the 1970s when it was founded
and formerly founded by gates of course
who presently has investments in a lot
of different renewable energy companies
and also in carbon capture companies the
Microsoft announcement here should kind
of make sense because there's a bit of a
business angle to where they see an
opportunity in carbon capture and want
to dump a lot of money into it to
hopefully leave the charge there now the
upside is that it does hopefully good
things as well the quote from Microsoft
was as follows the world's climate
experts agree that the world must take
urgent action to bring down emissions
ultimately Microsoft says we must reach
Net Zero emissions meaning that humanity
must remove as much carbon as it emits
each year while the world will need to
reach Net Zero those of us who can't
afford to move faster and go further
should do so that's why today Microsoft
is announcing an ambitious goal and a
new plan to reduce and ultimately remove
Microsoft's carbon footprint now this is
a good thing because Microsoft's going
to need more and more overhead for
additional power to store all of your
data and everything that you do in
Windows which is malware but Microsoft
published exhaustive detail on the
subject not to take away from something
actually good being done for once it
noted that it's taking a scientific
approach to the problem and Microsoft
already levies internal carbon taxes
against its own divisions and
engineering groups internally this helps
force engineering groups to find
solutions to things like power
consumption power management which again
benefit the user of the end product so
that's aside a byproduct that's useful
and further Microsoft's wants to invest
a billion dollars in what it's calling a
climate innovation fund that it I guess
has founded which aims to accelerate
carbon capture technology to help bring
the emissions negative of course
we already have technology to capture
carbon it's been evolved over billions
of years and it's green and brown but at
this point the problem probably requires
a multi-pronged approach not quite
enough anymore and we need to plant the
landmass of America anyway so I also
chatted out to eat in reforestation
projects when we worked with them for
anyone wants to do some more good
Microsoft will also be publishing new
environmental sustainability reports to
provide transparency on its missions it
indicated interest in quote supporting
public policy towards acceleration of
carbon reduction this is actually really
interesting because Microsoft is a large
entity and when companies like Apple and
Microsoft speak up typically the
government listens this will likely
involve lobbying but you got to play the
game to win the game I guess Microsoft
published additional studies on data and
energy consumption co2 emissions and
maps GDP against global temperature
increases it's all really interesting if
you are data minded and just like
looking at charts and data we did
encourage checking it out it'll be
linked in our show notes below and then
that Microsoft link goes off to other
studies if you want even more data so
anyway this is a matter where every
single person has to take initiative not
just the multinationals and the
government's our viewers did that by
working with us to plant 90,000 trees
through Eden reforestation projects in
November in December of last year and we
hope at GM's remain active and working
with the community on some other cool
projects coming up in the next few
months so one of them for you to keep an
eye out on is going to be something
where we're working with an electronics
recycler to refurbish systems so that
they can get reused by there's a lot of
systems out there that get thrown away
that are perfectly good they just need a
bit of care to be up and running again
so we're working on some stuff like that
with some nonprofits that should be
really fun content especially because
it's centered around building computers
and getting old systems that are dead
back into service and then we also have
some partnerships for other EE waste and
tree planting type initiatives keep an
eye out on all that I guess I'll note
too that we reduced our electricity
consumption by about sixteen point eight
kilowatt hours or so per day
just in the last couple months by
efficiently optimizing how our systems
are used here and power management plan
stuff like that anyway next one rumor
mills misreporting and these big navvy
stories so the rumor mills grabbed a
hold of a recent name filing with the
Eurasian Economic Commission or the EEC
which indicated AMD products like 5800 x
t a fifty nine fifty and a fifty nine
fifty xt these purveyors of rumors also
indicated that the company afox or a fox
made these filings so a few things first
of all the fox or however you say the
name doesn't presently make any current
generation i am the video cards
the newest we saw was an RX 590 so
that's a big jump right away secondly
the EEC filings are not filed by AMD
they did not make these filings neither
did the board partners by the way Igor's
lab retrieved the statement from a fox
and indicated that some of its Russian
one of its Russian distribution partners
filed the names not the board partner
and so those names listed in the
document are basically guesses basically
these were created in anticipation of
something that might exist at some point
and not actually by a company that has
the product in hand and certainly not by
AMD which is the only one that really
knows the names at this point now given
and these naming conventions it's not
impossible that 5800 X T might exist or
even a 5900 or whatever these names were
but we'd be guessing too and so are the
people who filed the reports with the
EEC as a reminder before na'vi launched
there were similar reports filed where
everybody in the rumor mill swore that
these cards would be called the 3700 as
if to follow up nvidia and the 20 series
and some reason that was a whole big
story but then a being called the 5000
series of cards so probably best to just
wait and see what actually happens
because ultimately who cares about the
damn name anyway especially when we
don't know if any of these devices will
exist so this is not indicative of
silicon existing at three different
price tiers above an 5700 XT it's not
even in dicta vut of what the names will
be it's a guess and we know that big
navvy will exist
Lisa sue CEO of AMD said that herself so
it's probably just just
just wait a bit till we have something
more credible anyway this isn't us being
quiet we genuinely have no information
from AMD on silicon whose numbering
exceeds 5700 last one NVIDIA price cuts
ahead of the 5600 XT launched from AMD
at CES 2020 EVGA pulled out its KO card
which just to be really clear here KO is
not an nvidia designation saw some
people who thought that this is listen
Nvidia Thane and the partners are making
it it's an EVGA thing it's actually an
old name that EVGA used so they brought
it back they dubbed the 2060 ko and ko
ultra cards and also planned to bring
the prices down EVGA had us 2060 K Ola
stood at $280 originally which was
actually a really compelling and
interesting price and unfortunately it's
already increased in price again the
company promised technically that the
2060 ko would be under $300 and
technically $299.99 before shipping our
taxes is under $300 most people would
call that 300 but it was a lot more
interesting that 280 bucks either way we
have won and we're gonna test it in our
5600 xt review we have one of those as
well that's not a surprise to anyone at
this point so now I just just see how it
does when we publish the review anyway
it seems AMD has further forest and
video to show its hand here so to speak
Nvidia preemptively cut some of the
prices it's encouraging the video card
partners to do the same and also sent
out a press to a note to press reminding
everybody that the 2060 is now $300 or
can be found for $300 anyway that seems
to include by the way the founders
Edition which you shouldn't buy it has
the absolute worst assembly we've ever
worked with in a video card anyway
that's it for this one thanks for
watching subscribe for more and got a
stored on cameras axis net to helps I
directly or patreon.com slash gamers
Nexus and we'll see you all next time
[Music]